Welcome back.
Let's check out a new section of our star of security.
We're going to talk about cross-site scripting and cross-site request forgery and they're kind of similar.
They have some overlaps so we're going to talk about them together.
You're also going to start noticing that a lot of these actually overlap as well.
Some of the best practices here are also going to affect other parts of the star.
So what is cross-site scripting first.
Well cross-site scripting occurs whenever an application includes untrusted data in a new web page without
proper validation or escaping or updating a web page with user supplied data using javascript cross-site
scripting allows an attacker to execute scripts in a victim's browser.
And you can do a lot of bad things by doing that.
Let's use a practical example here.
Imagine our security playground was a blog post and this blog post allowed for comments and users can
comment.
Users can comment.
Now a bad person can come in and you know try to execute scripts like we tried and that won't work and
we've seen this before where we can try and insert scripts in here.
Well this was a blog post and I did our old example something like this.
Remember our image source that's going to air and is going to alert one analyst make sure we close off
the tab click submit and we've run javascript on our browser but that doesn't really mean much.
However if this was a blog post with comments I by submitting this comment other people viewing this
browser can now go to this blog post and because I've entered this comment it's going to also execute
in their browser and the DOM is going to try and update and instead execute this alert function in a
user's browser.
And that's what Cross site scriptum means.
I can run code cross sites two different sites from my browser and what most bad actors would do is
use a line like this
window dot location equals to some web site that I created that's really really bad web site.
And I'm going to send something called document dot cookie.
All right so let's unpack this.
I'm going to just remove this for now and just do window location and it shows me exactly where my u
r l is.
If I go to a Web site like Twitter and do the same thing or it would do window Daut location I get the
role of Twitter and I can actually change this well and send people to different Web sites by just saying
window location equals.
So the first part of the script is saying go to this new Web site that I own that is a bad web site
and then I want you to send me the data.
That is the cookies.
What is document dot cookie.
And this is something that we're actually going to talk about in the JWT sessions.
But a cookie is a way for us when we log in to something let's use Twitter as an example.
When I log in here Twitter now remembers that I'm logged in.
If I refresh this page I'm I don't have to log in again.
I have a session with Twitter and a lot of Web sites.
Actually majority of them will let you sign in with what we call a cookie a random piece of text that
I receive and that piece of text is going to be attached to my browser.
So every time I go to Twitter.com now and I have that piece of text the server from Twitter is going
to say oh yea that's Ondrea Yeah.
You can let him in and like I said we're going to talk more about this in detail in the W.T. and sessions
section.
So don't get hung up too much about it.
But the idea behind it is that if a piece of text is the only thing that's Allow me to enter Twitter
then I can still that I can copy and paste that cookie open up another browser type it in and log in
to Twitter
so I can log on to Twitter without knowing my user name or password.
Pretty scary stuff.
So if we go back to this example all I'm saying is I want you to change the location of my your cell.
So go to this Web site and I'm going to also send to my Web site.
This information your cookie so I can have a server that just logs out people's cookies and now I have
your information if I knew that you were commenting on Twitter for example then I could steal that cookie
information and sign an and cross-site scripting is exactly that it's used for session hijack.
That's why we call it you already know how to prevent this.
We sanitize inputs.
We make sure that you can't just enter anything you want in our web sites and put.
Right.
That's that's pretty nice and easy.
Let's talk about the next point.
The C S R F or C sirf for short is cross site request forgery.
I know the names are pretty pretty confusing Don't worry.
The main takeaway from this video is going to be at the end of How to prevent this.
So you can always come back to it if you're confused.
They are a little bit advanced and you don't need to know them by heart.
Like I said you just want to know how to prevent them and don't worry I have a slide just for that.
So we have a problem.
We have our client.
And luckily for us we know to use a sheet yes when communicating.
So we have this little tunnel that protects our data from third parties and people that are trying to
spy on us.
A client makes a request to a server that maybe gets the profile of the user from the database and returns
it to the client so we can log in.
And then sometimes you also talk to third party API.
Maybe we get weather information or we get our robots from a third party API and we make that request
through a studio.
So we're all safe right.
Well as we saw with cross-site requests forgery if the server and the third party trusts the client
well then we can use that cookie to log into server and database and get that user's session.
So that's not the only thing that we need to do in Sisera or cross-site requests forgery.
We as a bad person create a bad you Arel that has malicious code in it.
So you are most likely going to see this in something like scam e-mails where they make you click on
a link.
For example they'll have something like this.
Let's clear this list to a new piece of text.
So this could be in an e-mail just this text or perhaps on a Web site that looks like Google dot com
but it's actually has an extra L and has an API where you can click sign in or read more and takes you
to this that website.
And overhear what they're doing is they're using query parameters too.
And this is just an example saying I want the account of the attacker and send the amount a hundred
dollars to that account.
And this is an example of a surf attack using the DP get.
We're doing a get to a query parameter.
If a victim visits this web page control by an attacker and the attack or in the victim is already logged
in let's say to their bank because they've already set those cookies and the server thinks that they're
already signed in and this is legitimate because we just made that person click on that link.
So they're in the same browser that they are logged in with.
Well I just made the user the victim click on a link that sends me money and this isn't just Garey cause
they can do this with.
You can also do it with post requests using I-frame and that gets pretty complicated.
And outside of the scope of this course.
So that's pretty terrible.
How are we going to prevent something like that.
Well let's talk about how we can prevent it.
But before I do that let me do something quote.
Let's try and attack Twitter.
Let's write this piece of code a feature request to this Web site that actually actually let me show
you what it does.
It's an ACB request and response service.
We essentially just output to this Web site whatever response we get.
Or where are we.
Whatever response we get and we can keep track of it.
So let's try and do a post request and in that post request send the from this website from Twitter.
Mike cookee of me being logged into Twitter if I press Enter Whew I get some errors I get refused to
connect to this because it violates the following content security policy.
Refuses to connect.
We see that we have this content security policy that prevents me from doing it.
And Twitter here is using a security measure to be like no no no.
We're not just going to send document cookee which is very important to just another web site so easily.
So they have good security measure and it looks like they're using something called content security
policy.
And all we need to do to set this is to just have it in our headers.
Now what does that mean.
Well let's just show you I have my express app over here.
And let's just go to the get method where we just return Hello world.
If you remember if I go to localhost I have the hello world over here now and here.
Let's before we send this do are us so response dot set and this might be different if you're now using
express or any other server.
But the idea is the same it will be 99 percent of the code is pretty much the exact same.
All you're going to do is give it an object and this object is going to have whatever headers we want.
Let's say that we want to have content security
policy and we're going to tell this Web site that the only places that we want javascript to be run
and let's use double quotes here just so we can use single quotes as well.
SCO like that and it's going to be self.
So our domain name which is local host for now.
And also let's say that we really trust Google API so let's just do a shitty ass.
And to the Google API so that Google we trust that they can do.
They can run scripts and let me just say that.
All right syntax for Hello world.
We just have to add the bracket over here now with save.
All right.
Now check this out.
If I go to Hello World and I refresh or go to network tap and refresh if we go to localhost we now see
that we have content security policy script source self GTP API google.com.
So we just set content security policy.
That's it.
That's how simple it was.
And these headers look really really overwhelming.
And don't worry these are actually a lot simpler than you think.
As you know with a sheepy request we have different things that we can send such as body parameters
and we also have response headers and I'm going to show you actually how to simplify this.
You're not going to do this manually most of the time.
Luckily for you there's NPM packages that we're going to talk about later on in the videos where this
is done automatically.
But I wanted to show you just so you know how to set headers and then finally we want to make sure that
this document cookie can be accessed so easily and by the way I don't recommend using cookies.
And is again kind of a debate about what to use so people might hate me for saying this but I'm not
a big fan of cookies just because it adds extra layers that you need to do to be secure.
And I'm going to show you later on in the course in the JWT and session video how we can actually do
this securely.
But let's say you're using cookies on your Web site.
Again it's a very very simple way to prevent this from happening and preventing subserve.
So cross-site requests forgery.
All we need to do is say that we want actually with Express.
We can just say response.
Dot cookie say a session ID.
And by the way this is exactly how a set a cookie is created by the server saying I just checked your
your username and password match.
Here's your session so that from now on we don't have to check your password and username.
As long as you send us the session one every request I will check and make sure that it works for you.
So in here I'm just going to say that and these are the two headers that we want to set for cookies
GTP
only.
And we're going to set that to true and secure is also set to true.
If I save this right and actually I think we can only set it one at a time.
So we're going to have to close this like this and we're going to do one more again this time with secure
true
let's save and go back here.
Open up the tab for your refresh.
Set the cookie.
Look at that.
We have a sheet only we have secure and the cool part is if we go to application and cookies look at
that we have the cookies for the session.
I think this is from a previous one so we can delete this one but if we refresh we have the session.
If I close this and refresh again the session is back very cool again.
Don't get too scared about this.
We're going to talk about cookies a lot more.
I know it can get confusing.
But this is all part of while we can make secure and you know what I think going to a slide or and summarizing
what we need to prevent cross-site scripting and see serve might be the best idea.
So what have we learned.
Well we already know this right.
We want to do client side input validation for quick user feedback.
Never let something like this work on your Web site and never trust it always validate and encode user
input before displaying something that we've discussed a lot about.
And by the way modern frameworks like angular re-acting view all do something called the scaping characters
to avoid this type of behavior by default.
Which is really really nice.
And the sanitize input is something that we're very familiar with.
I also want to emphasize to not use the eval function in javascript.
Yes Javascript has an evil function and it's very very dangerous.
Don't use it.
It is very rare that you would ever ever this.
There's also something called document dot.
Right.
So it's kind of like document interracially M..
But worse for example if I go here and do document what Cantab document dot right
and we do a script tag that has an alert of one and close US script tag
hurt it doesn't let me do it because I've just set the headers.
But if I go to my other
security play ground that I haven't done anything in.
Let's refresh here and remove this.
Look at that.
I was able to execute just by using Document R8 and I was able to enter a in line script.
We learned that we should set content security policy headers and don't worry.
This is something that I'll show you a tool that makes it very very easy and the set headers video.
And finally we want to set secure and HGP only for cookies using some of the methods that I saw.
I showed you by the way.
As with anything for problems that happen all the time there is preexisting solutions and tools and
one of them to avoid see surf is well.
This package all we need to do is install it requires it and then we can use it in any app that we want.
For example in Xpress it shows you how to use it.
If you're using cookies but like I said I'm going to show you a better way than this so don't stress
about it.
I know this video is a little bit difficult but just stick with me.
Trust me.
By sessions and tokin video this video is going to make a lot more sense.
Remember HGP only attribute prevents the cookies from being accessed by client side scripting and the
secure attribute and Sher's cookie will be sent over the yes connection.
So both of them work together again AC only says only HGP methods can access the cookie.
No javascript can.
So that mitigates our cross-site scripting attack that we might be able to use.
All right we've learned a lot of new vocabulary here.
This might be a video that you need to come back to but I'm going to list some exercises for you after
this video to get a little bit more familiar and play some of fun hacking exercises I'll see in the
next video.
Probably.